
Mental Actions:
	First Aid[2]:
		(Mental, Intelligence) ->
OnSuccess: You may end a number of ongoing non magical negative effects equal to your degrees of success.
				Bonus: For every 3 degrees of success you may convert a lethal damage to a non-lethal damage
				OnFailure: Add one turn to each on going non magical negative effect. For every 3 degrees of failure, cause target to Bleed(1) for 3 turns.
Long Term Care(1 Hour):
	(Mental, Intelligence) ->
OnSuccess: You increase double the rate at which the target heals.
				Bonus: Double the rate for every 3 degrees of success
				OnFailure: For every degrees of failure, undo any wound tending bonus. For every 3 degrees of failure, inflict an additional point of damage.
Treat Wounds:
	(Mental, Intelligence) -> OnSuccess: Treat a number of wounds equal to your degree of success. Treated wound heal at twice the rate.
Treat Poison:

Safe Channel:[2(Before), Degree of Success(After)]
	(Mental, Resolve)  -> OnSuccess: Your next, or previous action in this turn, costs no focus.

Action Points are a measure of your characters ability to act under pressure. Characters generally start with the maximum amount of action point, and generally regain all points at the end of a round. As a rule of thumb,  action point is to be spent every time the dice are rolled, feats can modify this.
To Resolve an action first determine the action success threshold. This is done by adding all relevant attributes or skills, and subtracting any penalty attributes or skills. Next determine if the action is Opposed or Unopposed, resolve the action accordingly.
Opposed Actions have an aggressor, and a defender. Typically the aggressor is the initiator of the action, though feats may modify this. Each side makes a separate roll, marking their level of success. The “winner” is the one with the highest degree of success. For determining winning outcome, subtract the winning success by the defending success, if any. Since opposed actions require two rolls, each side will have to spend an action point.
Unopposed Actions are rolled with one set of dice, and have no modifications to success beyond those provided by feats.
Degree of success is a measure of how well your character succeeded at the action in question. To determine the degree of success, subtract the roll from the threshold and add one.
Critical success is a degree of success higher than 5. When you score a Critical success you may gamble any number of successes. When gambling, you make a free roll using the same modifiers before(Apply the defenders degree of success as a penalty). If the roll is successful, you gain the twice the risked successes, plus the additional successes on the roll. This may only occur once per action.

Combat is segregated into individual rounds. Each round characters may make as many actions as the action point pool allows them. Initiative determines who acts first in a round. Each character makes a free initiative roll, unless surprised, and reports their level of success. This determines their place in the turn order, ties are won by the lower roller.



(Cost Per)[Total Tiers] Name
Tier One Description






Magic System:


Additional Feats:

(*)[*] # Charter Mage
This feat allows you access to the Charter Feats. This feat does not cost feat points, nor counts towards number of feat points spent. For every feat point spent in Charter feats increase the level of this feat.  See below for effects
Every 3: Increase your focus by 2.
Every 6: Decrease the action difficulty of Safe Channel by 1.


Charter Feats represent the individual capabilities of a charter mage. Each time you perform an action enhanced by charter magic, it cost one point of focus damage. This may only be prevented by making a Safe Channel action directly before/after the activation, or use of the Practiced Channeler feat.

(1)[*] Practiced Channeler REQ (3 Ranks in Charter mage for every rank)
If the degree of success is less than or equal to the number of ranks in the feat, you do not decrease your focus.
If you have at least 2 ranks in this feat, you may choose to decrease your degree of success to avoid having to decrease your focus.
(1)[3] Ranged Charter Force
You may use the Mental Attack(Ranged Weapon Attack). You may describe your action how every you’d like, but you may only use up to difficulty 2 Ranged Weapons as a range/damage template. Feats that specifically affect this weapon do not effect this attack, unless they are specifically taken for this attack. IE Not FightingStyle<Sling Staff> BUT FightingStyle<RangedCharterForce>
You may select up to difficulty 4 Weapon as a range/damage template.
You may pick any Weapon as a range/damage temple.
(1)[3] Melee Charter Force
You may use the Mental Attack(Melee Weapon Attack). You may describe your action how every you’d like, but you may only use up to difficulty 2 Melee Weapons as a template. Feats that specifically affect this weapon do not effect this attack, unless they are specifically taken for this attack. IE Not FightingStyle<Scimitar> BUT FightingStyle<MeleeCharterForce>
You may select up to difficulty 4 Weapon as a effect/damage template.
You may pick any Weapon as a effect/damage temple.
(1)[2] Elemental Force REQ [Ranged | Melee] Charter Force
You may add an Elemental(Fire, Ice, Charter, etc)  effect to your Metal Attacks. This replaces any weapon effects on the chosen template.
You may combine up to two Elements and their effects. This increases the action difficulty by one.
(1)[2] Charter Defense(Parry)
You may parry Ranged Weapon Attacks, Replacing(Physical, Dexterity -> Mental, Wits)
You may any Physical Attack
(1)[1] Weapon <T Weapon Template> Expertise REQ [Ranged | Melee] Charter Force
Anytime you make a Charter Force attack using T Reduce the action difficulty by 2.
(1)[4] Charter Mending
You may perform Mending
(1)[4]Charter Enchanting
You may perform the Enhance Weapon Action
The Duration Starts at a week
The Duration Starts at a month
The Duration Starts at a year, If it is at least 32 ( 5 Success) years it is permanent.

		Enhance Weapon Action(Hour Per Success)[Twice Feat Selected]
(Mental, Intelligence) ->
OnSuccess:  Your weapon gains the selected feat. This lasts for a day.
Bonus: Double the time for every success.


Charter bloodlines
Abhorsens
The Clayr
The wallmakers
Charter animal skins
Charter schooling
Charter rune knowledge
Charter quick casting
Charter multitasking --->  cast and act in the same action
Charter mage
Charter enchantments
Weapon Damage and difficulty
Elemental effects
Sending


	Equipment:
		Weapons:
			Damange:
